Logan Pearce (she/her): Cool, all right. So Hi, you know me. I'm. Logan Pierce. I have a astronomy, astrophysics, Phd. Candidate, and so I spend
Logan Pearce (she/her): a lot of my time reading and writing
Logan Pearce (she/her): research into journal articles for publication. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): this for this workshop I wanted to just talk about how I
Logan Pearce (she/her): approach, keeping up with new research in my field, and then digesting
that new research quickly.
Logan Pearce (she/her): because
Logan Pearce (she/her): it can feel overwhelming, especially if you're trying to get into a new field or like a new subfield or something where you're not already kind of familiar with the literature. And so
Logan Pearce (she/her): I wanted to talk about how I do that, because it can feel overwhelming like, I said.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Because if you read, you know, if you start at the beginning and you read to the end, you're never going to finish. It's just it's way. Too much
Logan Pearce (she/her): information. It's a way too many words. It's way, too many pages you will
Logan Pearce (she/her): quickly drown so. But you don't have to read. You don't have to read to the end. So So that's what I was going to talk about was just about what I do.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then just have a conversation as we go along. So ask questions whatever.
Logan Pearce (she/her): What's this chat?
Logan Pearce (she/her): J: You said you were looking to digest some neuroscience literature?
Jay Farris: Yeah. So my i'm kind of behind the times and like.
Jay Farris: So like performance, psychology is cool. It's really in this
Jay Farris: niche field.
Jay Farris: Is that performance like like fit like sports performance. It's a sports psychology.
Jay Farris: It's.
Jay Farris: But I don't know if it's quite up to date. Now, everything's going to neuroscience.
Jay Farris: You know a lot of. You know, the cognitive psychology and neuroscience are kind of merging.
Jay Farris: And so I, you know, I really like neuroscience. But one thing you know. with, you know, because essentially like, perform the psychology. It's your coach right?
Logan Pearce (she/her): But
Jay Farris: easy.
Logan Pearce (she/her): No problem.
Jay Farris: Okay. But
Jay Farris: sorry.
Logan Pearce (she/her): No worries.
Jay Farris: Yeah. To coach to a subfield
Jay Farris: like a military or athletes. I feel being able to explain. The neuroscience behind things would make it much more easier for them to understand versus
Jay Farris: kind of woo psychology stuff. Yeah, for sure. That's that's what i'm looking to do. And so I don't have a
Jay Farris: I have a background. It's a medic, so I can learn a lot of anatomy and physiology pretty fast.
Jay Farris: you know, but I don't have, like the chemistry and all that. I think I can pick it up pretty fast.
Jay Farris: you know, without having to like. Go through a whole undergrad program again. But
Jay Farris: that's what I like to do.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, and also keeping up with the latest developments in a field like
Logan Pearce (she/her): even if I
Logan Pearce (she/her): like. So before we started recording, I was talking with J. About how I recently started a project that's in a slightly different sub discipline than what I'm used to. So I wasn't familiar with the history and all the literature, the current state of the art for this field, so I had, like
Logan Pearce (she/her): tons of literature I had to digest to try to get up to speed into what's the current state of the art in this sub sub discipline. and so I had a huge amount to to try to. Hey, Katarina.
Logan Pearce (she/her): to try to digest. And
Logan Pearce (she/her): so now I've I've gotten over that hurdle, and I'm pretty much up to speed now. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): papers come out every day, so I still have to stay on top of what's the latest in that field. you know, if I read an a pivotal paper from 2,008, that's great like that's pivotal in the field. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): a lot has happened since 2,008, so like what builds on on that work and keeps going, and every single day there's new papers that come out.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So staying on top of even latest developments, once you get up to speed is very important.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So let me see.
Jay Farris: So how did you determine what? What paper? So you're diving into this new field, Was it recommendations? And then you just kind of went out rabbit holes, or how did you determine what you were going to read.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, that's a great question. So a lot of that. I cover a lot of the tools that help me do that in the research tools, paper, or workshop a couple of weeks ago. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): so I just started like with a basic literature search.
Logan Pearce (she/her): However. different fields have different tools for searching literature. My field has something called NASA astrophysical data system or ads.
Logan Pearce (she/her): A a broad tool is Google Cloud. Google Scholar is another broad tool for doing that. It's maybe not the best, but it's it. It works for all fields.
So I just like started with a keyword search.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and that got me to some papers as like a starting point, especially some of the pivotal papers you could even do. I even did like a Google just straight up Google search, and that will return our journal articles also.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And so I started. I found a few like pivotal papers, and then let me
Logan Pearce (she/her): let me share my screen.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So hold on
Logan Pearce (she/her): share my screen.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So so this
Logan Pearce (she/her): China
Logan Pearce (she/her): manage. Zoom: okay. So this is NASA astrophysical data system. This is how in astronomy we deal with journal journal articles.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): the field I was jumping into is white Dwarfs White dwarfs are
basically the core of dead stars after they've
Logan Pearce (she/her): involved. And died, our son will eventually be away to her.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I was looking specifically for polluted white doors, which are white doors that have metal in their atmospheres, whatever. It's not doesn't matter, but the key word is polluted white doors. So if you know, I just put it in an abstract.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and this will give me
Logan Pearce (she/her): things sorted by year. So this is 2,023. So this is the most recent stuff
Logan Pearce (she/her): which is maybe not not not going to get me to pivotal papers. But I did then I could do like a just a clean on Google search
Jay Farris: so
Jay Farris: quick question on on that, too. So if you're looking, and i'm sure if I go back and
Jay Farris: look at your other class, the answer will be there, but
Jay Farris: it would you also kind of sort it by like. How often that paper is cited to get an idea of Okay.
Jay Farris: Yeah. So that's what I was gonna.
Jay Farris: Yes, Google Solar will do that, too.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is a paper I'm very familiar with now. It's one of the pivotal papers coaster at all, 2,014,
Logan Pearce (she/her): so
Logan Pearce (she/her): I can actually look at it on NASA ads. It's very nice. Everything's connected.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and
Logan Pearce (she/her): if there one member decides to load, there it is, and it has all the citations of these papers. So this is so. Here's the abstract. This is the summary of the paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then it has citations over here, and it has
Logan Pearce (she/her): every paper that has ever cited this paper, which
Logan Pearce (she/her): is what 25 times through 13. That's a lot. This is a really pivotal paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and should have it on Google Google Scholar, too.
Logan Pearce (she/her): that should have citations.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Let me put in
Logan Pearce (she/her): It's Oops.
Logan Pearce (she/her): It's title
Logan Pearce (she/her): into Google Scholar.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There it is.
Oh.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and oh, it just took me to that to the
Journal's website.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Oh, here we go, cited by. So this has. So here it has. You can save it to your profile. So if I want to save this paper, I can save it. If I want to get the citation for this paper here it is in lots of formats.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and if I want to see the articles that have cited this paper, they have it here. This is all the ones that have cited this paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): which is a ton. has related articles. I'm. Not familiar with that, but that's a good.
Logan Pearce (she/her): That's a good way to go.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But there's another tool that I talked about in the other workshop. That's also very helpful.
Logan Pearce (she/her): something called connected papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is super cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so i'll put that title on there.
There it is
Logan Pearce (she/her): coaster at all. 2,014,
and then it will generate this graph.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): this is a plot of
papers that connect to this paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So that is that is like awesome, that is so cool. So here's the paper that I picked, and then I can see
Logan Pearce (she/her): this nodal network of all of these other papers. and like how they connect to this paper and like
Logan Pearce (she/her): like this one is this: One is connected through this one. So coaster, 2,014 goes to Zuckerman. 2,010 goes to client 22,009 right? So it's not even direct. It's like there's some. There's a jump in the nodes.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is a this is a huge tool
Logan Pearce (she/her): for getting a picture of everything that
Logan Pearce (she/her): connects to this paper in any way. There's also
Logan Pearce (she/her): you can. So if you lie, if you create an account, you can save this paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): you can read the
Logan Pearce (she/her): the abstract and title of so like. If I want to look at Zuckerman, 2,013 metal lines and white lists, so I can. I can see the title. I can see the author. I can see the abstract, and I can see if this is
Logan Pearce (she/her): a relevant
Logan Pearce (she/her): paper or not. Maybe it's not exactly what I want. Maybe it's exactly what I want, and so I can save it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And then I think I can make it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, I can. Then I can just make a graph to. So I just clicked on Zuckerman 2,003 open graph. And now it's making a graph for that paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So you can see how that paper goes.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. So there's that. Come in 2,003, and you can see
Logan Pearce (she/her): how
Logan Pearce (she/her): how other papers are connected to Zucker in 2,003,
Jay Farris: that that's really neat. So you could like to see all the ideas how it just like
Jay Farris: in one thing that is awesome.
Logan Pearce (she/her): It's really great.
This is
Logan Pearce (she/her): Hi, Rosalind!
Roslyn Grizzard: Hey, there!
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is a really powerful tool just for getting like
Logan Pearce (she/her): figuring out how the state of the field and how things connect to other things, and to really get get your
Logan Pearce (she/her): citations for a literature review like figured out. Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So okay.
So
once you find a paper that you want to read.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, let me start. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): this this kind of papers is giving me a picture of
Logan Pearce (she/her): papers. Then how in the field, or that I might want to read.
Logan Pearce (she/her): it. For
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): but to to stay on top of current papers. I'll show you what I do for that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): my field has something called archive pre pre pre-print, server
Logan Pearce (she/her): archive is for the physical sciences, but all fields pretty much are going to have some kind of pre print service. So you're gonna have to figure out what that is for your field.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And so, like I think you are, you shared a pre-print server
Logan Pearce (she/her): from your field last time, right.
fioravanti: I don't think so. Maybe I did. But I don't think so.
Jay Farris: Yeah, Jay.
Jay Farris: what's what is the pre-print so what our pre-print is is
Logan Pearce (she/her): when when a paper. Is. Authors have papers that are just accepted to a journal, but Haven't necessarily been published yet.
Logan Pearce (she/her): They will publish the pre-print server in my case it's archive, and so
Logan Pearce (she/her): it's a way to it's like a service that tracks all the latest
Logan Pearce (she/her): research every day.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So.
Logan Pearce (she/her): for example, under astrophysics, my field Earth and planetary astrophysics. That's one of the ones that I care about. So if I click on that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): here are all of the new papers for Monday. March twentieth they there.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There's 6 1.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Here's the new papers for Friday.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Here's the new papers for a Thursday, so it's it's up to the authors to publish to archive. In our case it's not like a scraper or anything.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But this is how you can stay on top of the latest
Logan Pearce (she/her): papers in all the fields in whatever field you care about. So I care about earth and planetary astrophysics. I also care about solar and stellar astrophysics.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So what I did is signed up for archive
Logan Pearce (she/her): pre-print server since a daily digest email.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So every day
Logan Pearce (she/her): I get an email in my inbox which is right here from the preparate Server archive, and for all of the new planetary on this astrophysics and stellar astrophysics. So planets and stars in in that have been posted to archive before.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I get this email list, and every day, and it has title, author.
Logan Pearce (she/her): abstract.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And so every day in the first let's look at the first thing I do is I scan this email, digest and read all the titles, and, like, I skim the titles and the authors usually to see if there anything that i'm interested in.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I don't really care about this one. I'm not interested in that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Not really interested in that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I also look at the authors because I want to see if any of my colleagues, or someone who's working familiar with has has produced something not really to that. No.
Logan Pearce (she/her): there was one today. I was interested in what was it?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Oh, right. It was this one a creating white dress. But I don't want to use that one as an example.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay, so let's say
Logan Pearce (she/her): I saw some of my collaborators had one. Where was it?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. So let's say that i'm interested in this one predicting the yield of small transition class whatever whatever. I know these 2 people, and so i'm like, oh, maybe I want to see what they what they did. So then i'll usually read the abstract. If I find a title, or a or authors that are interesting, then i'll, i'll skim the abstract.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Are you familiar? What abstracts are
Logan Pearce (she/her): just to. I'll just define it really fast. So the abstract is just like a little paragraph summary of everything in the paper. So it should begin with Big picture. What field are we trying to address? And it should end with the conclusions that this paper came to, and then in the middle is how they did it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So the whole. This is a basically one paragraph summary that should tell you everything in the
Logan Pearce (she/her): in the article.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So after I decide that I have. This is a potentially interesting paper. I will skim the abstract. I'll usually read, maybe the first sentence, and maybe the second, maybe the last minutes or the last few sentences, just to see what they found.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And if I then decide that this, hey, this actually is a really interesting paper, then i'll open up the paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is just the abstract again.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So here's the favor
Logan Pearce (she/her): it's taken Apparently this is a long paper. It's it's taking a while to load.
I didn't really this, and take this on to it.
Hey, go! I found it. Jay.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There's your sec
Logan Pearce (she/her): neuroscience, pre-print service.
Logan Pearce (she/her): sci archive
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is gonna work very similar to the one that I was showing you.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So there you go.
Jay Farris: Thank you.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And it's still loading.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is a really big paper.
Jay Farris: not a good one to pick.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, no. Our kind of is free
Logan Pearce (she/her): and connect the papers is for you also
Logan Pearce (she/her): another thing with
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, I don't actually, maybe I was connected papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Hmm.
And
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah, so I just literally googled neuroscience pre-print and since here
Logan Pearce (she/her): Oh, my God, it's still loading. I guess I picked a huge paper see if I can find something smaller.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay, all right.
Logan Pearce (she/her): here is now. So now here's the paper, and this actually says, because this is a pre print it's not published yet.
Logan Pearce (she/her): it says, pre-print up here. It doesn't have publication details because it hasn't been published yet.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and it says it's archive people over here.
Okay. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): now i'll. At this point i'll usually scan the abstract again.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then I might sort of skim the introduction.
especially if i'm not super familiar with the the field.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I i'll usually skim. This can skim the introduction
Logan Pearce (she/her): towards the end of the introduction is where they start, they usually start to talk about what they did.
Logan Pearce (she/her): The introduction that basically just gives you like
Logan Pearce (she/her): the current state of the field, and then how
Logan Pearce (she/her): their work fits into the current state of the field and solve some problems, or is addressing some some question in the field.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so i'll often get to like the last paragraph of introduction. and then I skip usually to the conclusion.
Logan Pearce (she/her): maybe the discussion usually straight to the conclusion. So then the conclusion says what they found. so
Logan Pearce (she/her): that is often as much as I will do for a general article.
Logan Pearce (she/her): If it's extremely relevant to what I
Logan Pearce (she/her): i'm interested in, then i'll death. Then i'll start looking at figures.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I will
Logan Pearce (she/her): scan through the figures. See if there's anything that looks interesting
Logan Pearce (she/her): and read the figure captions. One tip
Logan Pearce (she/her): that I don't see being done in this figure caption. But one of the things that I always try to do when I write a figure caption is, I describe what the figure says, and then I say what the reader should take away from the figure.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so i'll say like this is a plot of x versus y.
Logan Pearce (she/her): We can see from this plot that blah blah blah blah blah like what's the conclusion you need the reader to take away.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and I think that really helps, because the reader is not reading your paper from top to bottom.
And so, having the conclusion, telling them what to think
Logan Pearce (she/her): about what you're showing them is vital.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This paper did not do that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Just looking at this caption
they found a typo.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So yeah. So then i'll start reading the the figures and the captions see if there are any that are particularly
Logan Pearce (she/her): not worthy. And then I might start to read the discussion. because that's where they talk about in detail what their findings
Logan Pearce (she/her): it's fine. and our and how it relates to the the science question that they're trying to address.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And then, if it's really something i'm interested in, like if it's somebody's
what one of my colleagues or somebody doing the same kind of work i'm doing. Then i'll read the methods
Logan Pearce (she/her): last.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Usually I don't read much of the methods.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah, so that's how I approach trying to quickly digest work.
New latest work in the field
Logan Pearce (she/her): and
Logan Pearce (she/her): read a paper by skimming the most important parts first
Logan Pearce (she/her): parts some of the introduction to conclusion.
Logan Pearce (she/her): then figures, tables.
Logan Pearce (she/her): then maybe methods last.
Jay Farris: Hey, Logan, do you when you do this? If it's something cool to you, then do you like kinda like, write a note or something for your own self, or do you? Just
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): yeah, that's a great question. So if it's really something relevant, or i'm really trying to like, get up to speed on the state of a a field.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I definitely will take notes. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): I showed this a little bit in the
Logan Pearce (she/her): the research tools workshop.
Logan Pearce (she/her): but one of my favorite tools is called Zotero, and watching it. It's it's starting up
Logan Pearce (she/her): because it was closed on my computer.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And
Logan Pearce (she/her): so taro basically is a library management system. So it's
Logan Pearce (she/her): downloads and
Logan Pearce (she/her): it downloads a copy of papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): including
Logan Pearce (she/her): It's still starting up because it was closed.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There we go.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. so it
Logan Pearce (she/her): you can. You see it?
Logan Pearce (she/her): No, it Doesn't: Look right. It's
Logan Pearce (she/her): what happened.
Sure.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay, You see it?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. Okay. So this is a zotero. So this is like all of the papers that I This is my personal library. This is all the papers that I have collected for any reason.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and so Tarot has a
Logan Pearce (she/her): browser connector. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): if i'm interested in saving a paper, I just click the button, and it automatically saves the paper to my library.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and it saves a local copy of the paper so you can actually. so I highlight a bunch of stuff.
Logan Pearce (she/her): anything that seems relevant. I highlight I you can annotate.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There's like a like a note button so you can add notes. So that's one of the things that I do.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And another thing I do so also has a
Logan Pearce (she/her): app, an ipad app.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I use
Logan Pearce (she/her): You see, if I can show my ipad.
I think I can do this.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay, I've done it for
Logan Pearce (she/her): There we go. Oh, my God here. so has an ipad app also
that
Logan Pearce (she/her): you can that sync with my
Logan Pearce (she/her): desktop so, or safe with all my devices, so I can
Logan Pearce (she/her): see
Logan Pearce (she/her): those papers, and then I can mark it up.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I can draw on it highlight things, draw on it, make notes, etc., which is really cool, and then it syncs with my
Logan Pearce (she/her): devices, so I can see my notes on my computer.
Jay Farris: This is it syncs across Ios to
Jay Farris: Microsoft
Logan Pearce (she/her): to the zotero, app
Jay Farris: to the so it doesn't like. So it's cool like if I have a like my laptop.
Jay Farris: and then I have my ipad to different operate. Okay, cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): That's exactly what I do so earlier. I was showing it on my zotero on my laptop.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and
Logan Pearce (she/her): now it's on my ipad, and it's also on the cloud, so you can log in from any device and see your library.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then another app that I use is good notes. This is my
Logan Pearce (she/her): So here are my notes. No, this is not it. This is not the one I want. This is the one I want. So this is my notes where I take notes on papers that I was trying to learn when I was trying to learn all about white doors.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I love using this because I can
Logan Pearce (she/her): screenshot. So this is the
Logan Pearce (she/her): in the map and the Mac ecosystem. I can screenshot a figure, and I can air drop it to my ipad, and then I can draw all over it on good notes.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and I have it broken out by
Logan Pearce (she/her): author. So this is I'll also at all 2010, the title, and then I kept.
Logan Pearce (she/her): These are the figures that I thought were really important, and why, and I drew on them and highlighted them. wrote on them. Whatever I thought was important, and why. what matters
Logan Pearce (she/her): so? This is how I take notes on important papers that I need to remember for the future. And then it also has an outline. So if I go to the outline.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I outlined all of my papers, so I can easily find if I need to read about devast and secrets in 2,012 or 2.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is my notes on that paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is just something that I do myself, instead of like a physical notebook. I really really like using this good notes, because I can screenshot
Logan Pearce (she/her): things from the paper and paste them into my notes and draw on them and stuff.
Jay Farris: So the handwriting is going into your ipad.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. So I have an apple pencil. Yeah, apple conflicts going in there. Okay, cool. And then I can just right on it
Logan Pearce (she/her): and draw on it with my pencil.
Jay Farris: Nice? Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And this is just instead of a
Logan Pearce (she/her): paid like a paper notebook, I used a paper notebook forever until I got
Logan Pearce (she/her): this ipad. And
Jay Farris: now this looks really cool to it looks. You know better than some of the other, not taking stuff, but I've I can never
Logan Pearce (she/her): about one of the cool things about good notes. Is it actually can search your handwriting?
Jay Farris: Oh, wow!
Logan Pearce (she/her): So you can actually use a search feature. So if I
Jay Farris: Hmm, it's like good luck with my handwriting.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Stability
Logan Pearce (she/her): stability. It finds it in my handwriting.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Got it?
Logan Pearce (she/her): So that's a. That's a cool thing about good notes. Other people use
Logan Pearce (she/her): notability. Does something similar. Notion does something similar
Logan Pearce (she/her): on notes. Microsoft Onenote.
Logan Pearce (she/her): These are all similar things.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I even bought a planner for good notes. I had to pay for it. Good notes is free, but the planner I paid for
Logan Pearce (she/her): which is cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is My, this is my notes, my planner, and it connects to my
Logan Pearce (she/her): my Google Calendar. So if I wanna
Logan Pearce (she/her): add something to my Google Calendar, it connects automatically.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Oh, yeah.
Jay Farris: yeah, that's that's awesome.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But because that was always my my one gripe about Google Calendar was. I couldn't draw on it. I wanted to like be able to write on it
Logan Pearce (she/her): almost almost
Logan Pearce (she/her): perfectly solved the problem. It's not a 100% perfect. It's real close.
Jay Farris: that is so cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): anyway.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, so I use good notes for that. and I love it. and i'm really happy with it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): yeah, that's kinda all
Logan Pearce (she/her): I have to say about that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Do you all have
Logan Pearce (she/her): question Slots comments. I mean, the main takeaway is don't even try to read it from beginning to end.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Just read the important stuff, and only if
Logan Pearce (she/her): the title or the authors sounds relevant.
Jay Farris: So so when you are looking into the you know, when you're diving into this new field.
Jay Farris: How long did it kind of take you to to do that? And then how many papers did you feel? You know how how many papers before you kind of felt
Jay Farris: immersed
Jay Farris: and comfortable, just curious.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There was a ton of papers in the polluted white door. Field was. There was so many another thing that I did to help myself wrap my mind around. It was I started writing my own little literature review.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Once I, when I learned stuff, and I started to get wrap my brain around the current state of the field. I started to write up like, basically explain it to myself.
Logan Pearce (she/her): with all of the citations correctly. you know, cited so that future me can.
Logan Pearce (she/her): you know, find easily find citations for a field or for a claim. I can show you, my
Logan Pearce (she/her): my
Logan Pearce (she/her): explainer that I wrote to myself, which you know this is now is this later now is going to be part of a chapter of my thesis for sure. But
Jay Farris: so would you do that like? So then you You're just kind of taking.
Jay Farris: You know that. What? So? What is it? You know when you're putting it into your
Jay Farris: thoughts to solidify your learning.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I guess.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. I just kind of wrote it as if
Logan Pearce (she/her): I were writing a literature review or a paper myself.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I even wrote an abstract.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So like, you know, I wrote.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I basically just like described the whole state of what I was, the field of what I was learning
Logan Pearce (she/her): with the appropriate
Logan Pearce (she/her): citations so like this first sentence, you know, this concept comes from this paper. and I explained it so that other people could read it and understand. It's like as if if I were writing a journal article.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is what I did with relevant plots.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I started doing this once I started to read so many papers that I, starting to feel like I needed to organize my thoughts. This is how I organize my thoughts. I just explained it to someone else, you know, as if I were explaining it to someone else.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Explain it to myself.
Logan Pearce (she/her): All these plots and citations, and
Logan Pearce (she/her): the references are
Logan Pearce (she/her): here. It's like 6 pages of reference.
Logan Pearce (she/her): It's something for good papers.
Jay Farris: so that's like. Now it's useful to you in the sense that you can go back and grab stuff out of if you wanted to.
Logan Pearce (she/her): My Doc is harassing me to get this toy up from for her.
Jay Farris: Okay.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Sorry. She's very helpless. She can't get the toward herself.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. But like. I have like 6 pages of references here. But I did not read all of these like not even close A lot of them were just
Logan Pearce (she/her): backing up like a half a half of a statement that I made, or you know, or examples of something like I in no way read all of these.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I read a lot of them. but like for comparison the ones that I took notes on there's
Logan Pearce (she/her): on the order of 20, maybe 30
Logan Pearce (she/her): that I took notes on.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah, this is how I like
Logan Pearce (she/her): Organize my thoughts was by explaining it to someone else.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There's a trick in coding.
Logan Pearce (she/her): called the Rubber Ducky Trick.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I don't know
Logan Pearce (she/her): if you are stuck in your code and you can't figure out what's wrong.
Logan Pearce (she/her): You. You explain it to your rubber duck.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so I have a little rubber deck here, so you explain it in the in explaining to your rubber deck what your code is doing. It helps you find the problem.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So so that's what I did with this document. I explained it to my rubber duck
Jay Farris: with all the preferences you do, I? I I do something similar with
Jay Farris: when I try to explain something, I imagine i'm in a room full of judgmental people.
Jay Farris: sharp shooting, everything I say. And then I I how do I explain this?
Jay Farris: And then usually that kind of gets me over the over the home.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. I did this a a while ago. There was
Logan Pearce (she/her): some little concept that I was trying to make sure I fully understood, and so I wrote up a little explainer like this, and summarized a bunch of literature on this concept. It wasn't it was only a couple of pages. It wasn't very long.
Logan Pearce (she/her): but I put it on my website, and I have gotten multiple people. Now tell me that they
Logan Pearce (she/her): have used my explainer to like, help them understand it. And if you Google, this concept, my paper is one of my unpublished little
Logan Pearce (she/her): explainer is one of the top results. So a lot of people have told me that they found it and found it useful.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So, even though I wrote it for myself.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I put it up here and for everybody, so
Logan Pearce (she/her): i'm not gonna do that with this one, though, because this is my like experimental design that's mine. So, like I don't want people to scoop me.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah.
Jay Farris: maybe i'll do it once. My, now i'm in a separate field. So what's what's your what's your design on that?
Jay Farris: It is? I mean, that's just kind of what you're like. How are you organizing it?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Organizing what
Jay Farris: the your this. your big one.
Jay Farris: my my survey.
Jay Farris: or the paper like? How do I organize the paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, it's, you know. It's specific to this field.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So i'm looking at
Logan Pearce (she/her): white dwarfs
Logan Pearce (she/her): where there's a white door which again is the burned out basically core of star. And then there's another
Logan Pearce (she/her): regular burning star call in a sequence star.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and they're bound their binaries. They orbit each other.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): So it's organized by like
Logan Pearce (she/her): big picture
Logan Pearce (she/her): big picture. First like, how do we
Logan Pearce (she/her): use white dwarfs
Logan Pearce (she/her): to study planets? Because that's what i'm doing.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And then
Logan Pearce (she/her): specifically.
Logan Pearce (she/her): how does the binary enter in so sort of big with
Logan Pearce (she/her): who did white dwarfs
Logan Pearce (she/her): just for setting planets? And then it's. How does the binary come into this?
Logan Pearce (she/her): And then
Logan Pearce (she/her): here it goes to
Logan Pearce (she/her): current state of using, like observing these things, so using telescopes to look at them.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then then then it goes to
Logan Pearce (she/her): narrow to my survey design. and how my survey is gonna
Logan Pearce (she/her): impact this field.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and why it's designed the way it is, and stuff. and then it goes
Logan Pearce (she/her): back out to the future and to in the big, the big picture question.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Have you heard of the the hourglass manuscript design?
Jay Farris: No, but I I I know I've heard of it, because that's what you did in your other other thing, right on your
Jay Farris: from it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Never mind. I haven't heard of it. Okay, the idea is Well, there's lots of different graphics here that may or may not be relevant. But the idea is this: this is how the best way to structure
Logan Pearce (she/her): a article, a journal article, literature, view, any kind of
Logan Pearce (she/her): any kind of
Logan Pearce (she/her): thing where you're trying to share. How you
Logan Pearce (she/her): did your science basically like you can. You can use this for
Logan Pearce (she/her): articles and for
Logan Pearce (she/her): talks like our posts are like if you're in a poster or a talk.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Same idea. So the idea is that you start Big Broad. What is the big picture?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Scientific goal
Logan Pearce (she/her): state of the current state of knowledge, and whatever this field is.
Logan Pearce (she/her): background, knowledge, and then you kind of narrow to like. What are some of the open questions
Logan Pearce (she/her): in whatever this field is, and then
Logan Pearce (she/her): how? What you did will address
Logan Pearce (she/her): those questions, and then the narrowest part is what you did. it's, and then
Logan Pearce (she/her): then go back out to
Logan Pearce (she/her): bigger question. Go back out to the big picture again, so discuss how what you did fits into the
Logan Pearce (she/her): the current state of things, and then go out in conclude with that big picture conclusion again. So how what you did
Logan Pearce (she/her): contributes to the big picture.
Basically.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So yeah, you start really broad.
Logan Pearce (she/her): narrow, down to what you did, and then back out, brought again to the big question, the big picture.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and as this one illustrates that roughly correlates to the introduction.
Logan Pearce (she/her): being the big picture, and then
Logan Pearce (she/her): the methods and results being the narrow part, what you did, and then back out again in the discussion and conclusions.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Here's another one.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Background, knowledge, areas of uncertainty. What you did comparison with literature, strength, limitations, and efficiently features. This is going to vary based on the field. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): here is another one
Logan Pearce (she/her): background. Challenge. Yeah, what's the specific problem. You're trying to address what you did, and then back out
Logan Pearce (she/her): to the broad picture.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is always a really good structure. especially when you're giving a talk when you give a talk like you spend 90 of your time
Logan Pearce (she/her): doing in your talk. You so in your talk you spend like 10 talking about of your time talking about what you spend 90% of your time doing
Logan Pearce (she/her): because they don't, you know they don't need to super a lot of detail with your methods. They just really need They Listeners really need the big picture more. And how what you did fit into the big picture.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): this is a good rule of them
Logan Pearce (she/her): for yeah structuring papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And I recommend, if you're reading a paper, I recommend seeing how
Logan Pearce (she/her): how the author
Logan Pearce (she/her): tried to accomplish this
Logan Pearce (she/her): also
Logan Pearce (she/her): questions, thoughts, comments.
Logan Pearce (she/her): good stuff
Jay Farris: sounds great. Thank you.
fioravanti: Yeah, that's a that's a great little guide.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, definitely. Don't
Logan Pearce (she/her): a po approach articles the same as you would approach books or
Logan Pearce (she/her): English
Roslyn Grizzard: here for 30 years, and white papers and journals. I would read them like books.
Roslyn Grizzard: and it's not how they're supposed to be.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I did. Before I went back to school for astronomy. I was a public school teacher, and I got a masters in education during that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And so I was during that masters program. I was reading tons of education. Papers and
Social science papers are long
Logan Pearce (she/her): way longer than astronomy papers. They are like on the regular 30 to 50 pages on the regular, and we would be assigned, you know, 2 or 3 or 4 papers every night, and I would read them from beginning to end, and my eyes we glaze over because nobody ever told me how to read a paper like.
Nobody ever told me how to digest a paper
Logan Pearce (she/her): like it's one thing to read it, read every word, but like to digest it and understand what it's saying. No one ever taught me this. So like
Logan Pearce (she/her): it was. It was pretty rough trying to read all of those education papers
Logan Pearce (she/her): when I got to astronomy, and I was like. This is only a 10 page paper. Oh, my God, it's so great because it's used to these social science papers that we're so freaking along.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): So yeah. don't read it from beginning to. unless it's super relevant. And you're really trying to learn what the paper says
Logan Pearce (she/her): that I've read every word
Jay Farris: do you have like? Yeah. So there's like kind of I know, like when pure I gave his class, you know he has these. I I can't remember what you call them fiore. But like the Seminole
Jay Farris: works that you kind of just go back to
Jay Farris: that are like your saves, so to speak. I guess.
Jay Farris: Okay.
fioravanti: So you know, and backwards and forwards I'm: sure. Oh, yeah, I mean. But but I think in my, when when I did my
fioravanti: graduate work.
fioravanti: which was a British literature in Britain. My teachers were very adversarial.
fioravanti: That's the way they approach literature, and I don't mean in political ways the way they do in the United States, but just very, very aggressive, almost legalistic. You know. I was talking to Kate about this.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and so I kind of got into looking at text, and the way that they argue with each other.
fioravanti: and almost like getting into that head of like picking a part of text.
fioravanti: And so this certain seminal works, especially books. You know, books books suck because they're they're they're old like By the time the book is published. It's the researchers of 10 to 15 years old.
fioravanti: But books are great because they filter out peer-reviewed journalists really well, because whoever wrote the book wherever edited the book.
fioravanti: So though that's what I mean by some. It works like a really great book in your field will be actually a nice little bibliography for peer-reviewed journals and peer-reviewed journals themselves are, you know I kind of read them in an adversarial way against each other kind of like.
fioravanti: you know, and that's more fun for me, because rather than try to absorb everything, I kind of just look at like how what you know how Logan was showing you that web before
fioravanti: right? So that's kind of in my head like. How do these authors kind of like argue with each other in this little constellation, you know. So yeah, certain certain certain period Journal Peer reviewed text. I I know, like I almost can just recite what they said, because
fioravanti: i'm so angry about it, and somebody else is so angry about it. It's like the web of hate, you know. But yeah, it's different than science. You know. It's quite different than science. It's
Logan Pearce (she/her): so Similarly, we have things called literature, reviews, books, Books tend to be more textbooks in my field, and so they're great. But like, if you want, like
Logan Pearce (she/her): like bibliography for a specific field. Literature review is is going to be that kind of a that kind of a standard like you're talking about. Feel right? So like this is one, for example, Jura and Young, 2,014 on basically extra solar cause we're here, which basically means like
Logan Pearce (she/her): the learning about the chemistry of planets using why doors.
Logan Pearce (she/her): stars. and so like you can see I've highlighted the crap out of this, but it has, because it's a literature view. It has these really like foundational plots like this is this is like
Logan Pearce (she/her): the schematic of metals, and in white dwarfs that you will see in in all kinds of talks, because this is like just a seminal like, here's the basics
Logan Pearce (she/her): figure.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then so tons of figures, and then tons of bibliography.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Really you.
Logan Pearce (she/her): this is like a this is like a summary of this field to date is what a literature view is.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So talking about how to find relevant papers finding a literature review that's relevant. That's the topic you are interested in. And then, looking at their bibliography, what they site and reference.
Logan Pearce (she/her): we'll send you to a lot of useful papers
Logan Pearce (she/her): talking about papers that I read and know, like the back of my hand
Logan Pearce (she/her): in my field, we often will talk about Mali, 2,014, Just where is my 2,014,
Logan Pearce (she/her): my way? 2,014.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This one describes how to do this one calculation.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is it. Actually, it's just how to do this calculation. You already know what it is. But this is how you do this one calculation, my way
Logan Pearce (she/her): to always section 3 1 2, and 14, section 3, and so like Molly 2014. This is a shorthand. It'll be like, oh, yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): how did I do this? Oh, I did my way. 2,014, and everybody was like, oh, okay, you know, like cause it's just such a like foundational way to do this one thing that everybody does
Logan Pearce (she/her): that everyone knows just like, oh, yeah, you know, I use my way, you know.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Jay Farris: So how do? How do you discern, like, what's a good literature review?
Jay Farris: Do you just kind of pick it up by word of mouth, or
Logan Pearce (she/her): Google. or the
Logan Pearce (she/her): any other like article search service.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then look for the ones that I mean. Read the abstracts and titles
Logan Pearce (she/her): to see if it's what you're looking for, and then look for the newer ones.
Logan Pearce (she/her): because their goal is to summarize the research to date. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): you want to get the the newest one. This is 2,014. So there's been a lot of work
Logan Pearce (she/her): in this field since this. but you know I read the I read the show on this paper because you you got me up to speed to 2,014,
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then, you know, I can go but go beyond that, and then I can look for papers that have cited this paper to to go beyond that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah, definitely
Jay Farris: so are the literature reviews like who who who generally writes, those are they leaders in the field editors, or
Logan Pearce (she/her): usually leaders in the field.
Jay Farris: This guy Jura has written like
Logan Pearce (she/her): a 1 million papers on this topic like I've read so many of his papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So usually yeah leaders in the field.
Logan Pearce (she/her): It just kind of like, if you feel like an
Logan Pearce (she/her): enough that you feel like there's enough out there that someone should summarize it. Generally somebody will like another one in my field. Is this
Logan Pearce (she/her): roller 2,016? Where is it?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Or 2,016? This is another one. That's a literature view that's really foundational. So I I actually worked with Brendan Bowler. So that's how I knew about this. This One's really foundational, like people cite this
Logan Pearce (she/her): like crazy. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): I think I found that, like if you just
Logan Pearce (she/her): here's the thing. If you just start reading
Logan Pearce (she/her): or skimming the introduction of papers that are relevant you. These same seminal papers are going to come up again and again.
Logan Pearce (she/her): right because everyone is going to be citing them. So what I was when I was really diving into trying to learn this new field I
Logan Pearce (she/her): would like
Logan Pearce (she/her): right down all night.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Cool. Hi, Rosalind. you know I would. I would write down these references.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and to come. In fact, I even have in my zotero. I even have a to read folder.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so I would collect the ones that I needed to read.
Logan Pearce (she/her): but and depending on the context clues within the introduction that I was reading, could tell me if it was like how vital it was to read this paper or not like who that one sounds really important, like I need to read that one.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah, the the really similar papers are just gonna They're just gonna keep coming up
because everyone's going to sign them.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So using the introduction of papers
Logan Pearce (she/her): is super useful, super helpful.
fioravanti: So I was, You know Th: that's amazing. All this stuff you have. I was just a a thought about these other fields like psychology, cognitive sign, cognitive. Well.
fioravanti: the more the more kind of issue driven cognitive science, right? So I i'm i'm like I'm like naturally a very distrustful reader.
and and in my field there's so many lame papers right there's many, many bad papers, so
fioravanti: I go more. I I what I do is I I kind of have a couple of authors that I trust, like. I just feel that they're very ethical. I, even though I don't agree with Steven Pinker on many things. I trust him because he's very self correcting. So if he's re written an introduction to something.
fioravanti: I will use that introduction. As you know, he he will include literary reviews, and almost every book he writes. He kind of reviews all the literature up and then, and a lot of writers won't do that even great writers
fioravanti: I have an act to grind, and so they won't do that. So I I kind of learned to trust certain writers like Logan was saying about Jura, and I know that that their books will be valuable just to filter out stuff right rather than like pure information, you know.
fioravanti: and I I trust the bibliography is more. It's just like it kind of work through these Mentor, the Mentor kind of model of studying, you know. But I think with scientists, You guys, you know you guys have so much more rigorous that you can. You have a wider scope to to gather information.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Oh, another important source for
Logan Pearce (she/her): finding important papers is your advisor
Logan Pearce (she/her): and your colleagues. you know. If if if you're starting to work with an advisor
Logan Pearce (she/her): like right when you start whatever project you're working on, They're probably gonna hand you
Logan Pearce (she/her): 5 6 7 8 papers that are like, Start here. Here's where you need to start.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): that's another very important resource that Hasn't been mentioned yet.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Cool.
Jay Farris: Great? Thank you. Good luck.
Jay Farris: Awesome. It's exactly what I was looking for. For.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I'm glad. Yeah, like, I said, this is tricky stuff that Isn't always taught
Logan Pearce (she/her): like
Jay Farris: my difficult.
Jay Farris: They never. No one taught me this. So okay, you did it. The
Jay Farris: you know I i'm a person Those things like the hard way all the time, and so like the do you, looking back on your masters, and then doing your your masters and your Phd.
Jay Farris: And astronomy. Now, is there a huge difference that you now have? These skills like you would wish you could kind of like, not wish, but like, just send the message back in time to your old self and be like.
Jay Farris: I mean, sure, yeah, sure. I mean
Logan Pearce (she/her): It'd be nice not to spend 4h at a coffee shop reading 2 papers, you know, like that was, you know, wasted effort, but I didn't
Logan Pearce (she/her): no any better, because all the reading I had done up until that point was
Logan Pearce (she/her): not that kind of reading.
Jay Farris: So
Logan Pearce (she/her): there's you know, there's a concept called the hidden curriculum of academia, which is this things that everyone just kind of seems to know. But nobody ever teaches
Logan Pearce (she/her): like how to read journal article or like. you know.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, I don't know.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and it's a
Logan Pearce (she/her): The hidden curriculum is a there is a barrier for people especially like
Logan Pearce (she/her): first-generation academics, especially
Logan Pearce (she/her): who you know are trying to break into Academia and Don't have this roadmap to things that their peers seem to know already.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So yeah, so it's important to be
Logan Pearce (she/her): transparent
Logan Pearce (she/her): with with these kind of things, I think.
Jay Farris: Does this help like in your
Jay Farris: in your writing and stuff like that? That's one of my things, and I I don't think I don't think we've done anything on writing
Jay Farris: for the for so like the skills that you pick up for research reading, and then I guess that all helps on time management to
Jay Farris: that like. Are you able to be more prolific as a writer? This do you think that's helped as far as
Jay Farris: your reading skills and stuff like that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I mean, yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): for sure.
Jay Farris: i'm not a 100%, sure, I understand. But so I guess i'd say, like, do you feel like what what you say like the well, I guess. Let me be more clear. So like your method, as far as like.
Jay Farris: you know, extrapolate and information, and then writing it down in your own thoughts. Are you able to go back? Does that make your writing easier?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, for sure? So so I've spent like months and months and months on writing that explainer that I showed you.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And then just last week, I needed to write a telescope proposal. So basically the proposal to ask for a time on a telescope for this project. And so I was like, oh, I've got the science, the science justification down, and I was just like what like, how do I summarize Basically, how I take this like 20 page document and summarize it in a page.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But like that was that was super easy, and I already had. I already have the basic structure of the argument. I already had references that were relevant, and so putting the science justification together was really easy.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And yeah, like, I said, this document is probably going to be a chapter in my thesis, you know, like I've already got it kind of done. So.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, because doing the writing of that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): the explainer document
Logan Pearce (she/her): forced me to organize my thoughts. And so now I have a really good handle on
Logan Pearce (she/her): the science case for this project that i'm doing, and so I can talk about it, and I can write about it pretty quickly, because I've already been forced to think through it all the way.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and in doing the work of thinking through it like other things, occurred to me like oh, I should add this, or I just need to pull that, or like you know
Logan Pearce (she/her): it. It helps me like wrap my brain around it. And now I can talk about this project really intelligently.
Logan Pearce (she/her): because I've had to think through it already.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But there's also
Logan Pearce (she/her): different. There's different types of writing in academia
Jay Farris: like
Logan Pearce (she/her): the first paper that I wrote for astronomy.
Logan Pearce (she/her): One of the hardest things for me was
Logan Pearce (she/her): like, okay, I know what I want to say. How do I say it in the way that readers expect to read it? Because the type of writing is different
Logan Pearce (she/her): than what I was used to so
Logan Pearce (she/her): like figuring out how to say it in like astronomy language. You know science, words
Logan Pearce (she/her): was hard, and it just took
Logan Pearce (she/her): doing it and getting feedback from my advisor and other co-authors
Logan Pearce (she/her): helped me, You know, shape the language into like discipline Norms
Logan Pearce (she/her): So that was that was really challenging, and I still struggle with it. I'm still way too worried.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I still need to
Logan Pearce (she/her): shortened concise sentences. But writing a journal article is very different from writing an application essay.
Logan Pearce (she/her): you know. That's a whole different kind of writing.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So these are hidden curriculum things that
Logan Pearce (she/her): people don't often talk about.
Jay Farris: So so just now following up on that, so do you. So when you you, by reading, you know all your
Jay Farris: this is more of a writing question.
Jay Farris: But, like you're reading of the research.
Jay Farris: it's seen how other people say it.
Jay Farris: or you know, was that helpful? You're like I like the way that person said that. And so
Jay Farris: i'm gonna build their style, you know here and there. The problem, then, is to how do I not say it? Word for word the way they said it like, make it my words, but still good where it's like. It's all hard for me. This is hard. Take this language. Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I mean, these are things I struggled with when I I I still struggle with. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): yeah.
Jay Farris: cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, it was just kind of a thing to figure out was like, how do people in this discipline say things.
Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I've collected a lot of writing academia writing resources on my website.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I think I publish some in this classroom as well.
Logan Pearce (she/her): but my website is kind of where I compile things when I haven't when I see something cool i'm like oh, i'll save that for later by just putting it on my website or a link to it. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): there's a lot specifically on
Logan Pearce (she/her): writing there. Let me put it in the chat.
Logan Pearce (she/her): It's log in here, Science dot com slash resources.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): lots of different academic writing topics there.
Logan Pearce (she/her): including
fioravanti: you. So I I did my own good notes on on my
Logan Pearce (she/her): yeah, I mean, I was. I was a paper notebook person forever, until I finally
Logan Pearce (she/her): adoption through the adoption and inflection point for ipad.
fioravanti: Anyway, Thank you so much. I I I wrote all this down, and somehow i'm going to translate it into real real action at some point.
fioravanti: I'll see you next time, guys.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Hi. But it was helpful.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So we're definitely a 1h, so we can end into your
Jay Farris: Yeah. Yeah, it was super helpful. Thank you so much.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Good. Good. Good. Okay.
Logan Pearce (she/her): By Kate. Thanks, but glad it was useful.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and Don't reach out with questions.
Logan Pearce (she/her): of course. Always happy to chat
Jay Farris: cool. All right. Well, i'll see you next time, Logan. Thanks again.